In this video we are gonna start looking at the Spring Context. So we've already seen the Spring Context
or some people called the Application Context in use. When we created that web application remember we
were bringing up repository instances.
Spring was giving us an instance of that repository and then in our controllers we asked for Spring
to inject an instance of that repository into our controllers at runtime.
That was all being done by the Spring Context. So you can think of the Spring Context as all the stuff
that's going to be around your application. And when Spring starts up it's going to be looking at your
project and you are going to have annotated dependencies. You might have configuration files. So all the
stuff is going to get brought up into the context. So when Spring does come across the controller asking
for a component what's happening is that it's going to go out to the context and see if I can find an
instance of that or constructed at that time.
So there's a couple different scenarios at play. We'll be exploring this more in the course in future
videos.
But in this video what we want start doing is just take a look at that Spring Context, conceptually start
start remembering that it's not just your code that's executing. You have this context that Spring is going
to be managing components. As it finds components, Spring Beans, those objects are going to
get constructed and become available in the context. What this means is that we can go in and ask
the context, the Spring application context, for a reference to that object. So if we have a controller
that has been created in the context, this is a controller object that has been created. We can ask
spring for a reference to that and then work with that constructed object that is being managed by the
Spring Framework.
So in this video we are going to go through an example of creating a controller and then asking the
Spring Context for a reference to that. I'll show you how to do that inside of IntelliJ
right now. Okay up on the screen, you can see that I have our Spring project loaded.
We have the one main class here. What I want to do here is I'm going to create a example controller.
I'm going to come up here create a new package. I'm just going to call that controllers like so and I'm
gonna create a new Java class. I'm just gonna call this MyController.
And here I'm going to annotate this as a Spring managed component so I'm telling it to use the Spring
Controller stereotype. And let's just create a simple method that returns back a string and say Say
hello world example. And in this I can do system out and then I can return a simple string that just
says Hi Folks like so.
So very simple. This is just a simple Java class with one method and that method I'm going to get a message
of hello world to the council.
So a very very simple method here.
I'm not doing anything strange here.
I just want a very simple controller that we can work with. And then in the application what we're gonna
do is we're going to take this method here. What this does here, this run.
This is actually going to turn back a application context.
So what I can say here is I'm modifying this. I'm just going to say ctx for the name.
So now I'm getting a handle on the Spring application context and I can actually ask that context
for an instance of my controller so say my controller equals and I need to do a cast here because it
just returns back an object type.
And I can say getBean and give it the name of the bean.
And by default when Spring creates beans, the string name of the bean is going to be the class name.
But beginning with a lower case . So I just say myController like so and that that's how we ask the Spring
Context because when the starts up Spring is going to go through, scan for beans.
Things have been annotated as beans and create those into the context.
Now I can say greeting equals myController sayHello and then I can also do sys out greeting.
So what's gonna happen here is I'm asking the context for the controller. I am getting the return value
and the greeting.
But when I say that say hello and that is going to run that method inside the controller and we'll get
that greeting output to the council. So when I run this, we will get Hello World and then we should see
it followed right by Hi folks.
So let's go ahead and run this now. So I'm just just going to run the Spring application. It takes a
second for it to compile.
You can see that Spring Boot did start up. Let me resize this here. So we can see that Spring Boot started.
Unlike what we did before where we're bringing up a web application there is no Web Context. So effectively
this starts and then stops because there's no web server configured.
So this is very very light lightweight Spring application but we see on the council just as we expected
we did get a bean.
So the bean is being brought up and we are seeing that controller. we are getting that green from
there. So we execute the say a Hello method and that method says Hello World but it also returns back
the string.
Hi folks.
And then on line 18 we output  that data.
Now one thing I do want to point out here is notice that I never asked never created that controller
object.
Nowhere in the code did I say new controller. The spring framework is actually doing that for us.
So it's going out.
What's happening underneath the covers.
Spring is creating that. So inside the Spring Context, Spring effectively is saying create a new instance
of this class, put it into the context, and then when I run here what's happening is on line 14 I'm saying
hey Spring I want an instance of this so from the context provide me an instance of this bean.
So the Spring that's how the inversion of control works.
The Spring Framework is managing the construction of myController.
So Spring is providing it.
So I'm not creating a new object there.
I'm asking Spring to provide me an object there.
So this is like one of the fundamental tenants of Dependency Injection is to have the framework doing
all the management of it.
So the framework is going out and creating those objects for you and providing those instantiated objects.
You can see there I did not create it myself.
I asked the framework for an instance of that object.
And then on line 16, I utilized that object to execute the sayHello method.